Recommneder Systems---
Helps to match users with items by--
1. ease info overlaod
2. sales assistance(guidance,advisory,persuasion...,)

where the interests and preferences of users can be identified based on--
past behaviour,relation to other users,item similarity,context,demographics,etc

Non-personalized recommneder systems---

personalization-act of tailoring an experience based on user info collected.
hwere info could be--geolocation,user persona,time of day,browser or device type.
personalized reco systems are subdivided into--
collaborative filtering,content based and knowledge based filtering.

Non-personalized recommneder systems--- are simplest types of recommender systems.The ecommendations are same for every user.These are used when we dont know much about user. eg, billboard music ratings, trip advisor hotel ratings,etc

hacker news ranking algo-it looks like--

score=P-1/(T+2)^G , P=points of an item,(-1 to negate submitters vote),T=time since submission(in hrs),G=gravity defaults to 1.8

Personalized recommender systems-----------------------gives recommendation list

collaborative filtering---tell me wht's popular among peers.
content based--show me more of the same what I have liked.--gives product features+knowledge models --->recom component----->recom list

Collaborative filtering--
slide--

User based collaborative filtering---

Pearson corr--cov divided by std dev betw two variables

pred(a,p)==computing a prediction for the rating of user a for a given item p that also factors the relative proximity of the nearest neighbours n and a'a avg rating ra, add the weighted deviations for the ratings to calc the predicted rating. So,this nothing but the weighted avg of the normalized ratings.
normalized meaning rbp-rbbar.ie. rating of b given by every other user.This rating is then weighted by how similar a given user was to the active user A.

Item based collaborative filtering

svd---singular value decomposition

association rules--market basket analysis-------

Predictive ratings--MAE-computes the deviation between predicted ratings and actual ratings.1/n summationi=1ton |p_i-r_i|
RMSE is like MAE but place more emphasis on larger deviation.sqrt(1/n summationi=1ton (p_i-r_i)^2)

Classification accuracy-- precision--this is the measure of exactness,determines the fraction of relevant items or results retrieved out of all items retrieved.
eg the proportioin of movies retrieved that are actually good.

recall-- a measure of completeness,it determines the fraction of relevant items retrieved out of all relevant items.eg the proportion of all good movies recommended.

content based filtering---

Term freq-inverse doc freq--better than bag of words and takes care of the fact that more common words are often less useful and penalizes their weight.
term measures how often a word appears(density in a doc)=count of term i in a doc j/no. of terms in doc j
IDF-aims to reduce the weight of terms that are very common in the dataset.=log(count of docs in entire dataset/count of docs carrying item i)

knowledge based recommneder system










